sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
PermitRootLogin no

1: Explain what is a virtual machine
	1.1: How does a virtual machine work?
	1.2: Why did I choose Debian?
	1.3: Rocky vs Debian
	1.4: What is the purpose of virtual machines
	1.5: Aptitude vs Apt
	1.6: What is APPArmor?
	1.7: Monitoring script
		- Later

2: Simple Setup
	2.1: Connect with a user (not root)
		- User: marcofer
	2.2: Check UFW status
		- sudo service ufw status				
	2.3: Check SSH status
		- sudo service ssh status
	2.4: Check operating system
		- hostnamectl
		- cat /etc/os-release

3: User
	3.1: Check user marcofer
		getent passwd | cut -d: f1
		- getent passwd: This command retrieves entries from the user database
		- cut: This command is used to extract specific parts or fields from each line of input.
		- d:: This option specifies the delimiter used in the input. In this case, the delimiter is set to :
		- f1: This option specifies which field to display or extract		
	3.2: Check it belongs to sudo and user42
		getent group evaluating
		getent group user42	
	3.3: Add new user and explain password policy
		sudo adduser new_username
		sudo nano /etc/pam.d/common-password
		sudo nano /etc/login.defs
	3.4: Add new user to evaluating
		sudo groupdel evaluating
		sudo groupadd evaluating
		sudo usermod -aG evaluating new_username
			-a: This option stands for "append." Appends the user to the specified group without removing the user from their existing groups.
			-G mygroup: This specifies the group to which the user myuser will be added.
	3.5: Explain the advantages of this password policy

4: Hostname and Partitions
	4.1: Check hostname
		hostnamectl
	4.2: Change hostname to evaluators login and change it back
		sudo hostnamectl set-hostname login42
		sudo reboot
		sudo hostnamectl set-hostname marcofer42
		sudo reboot
	4.3: Check partitions
		lsblk
	4.4: Explain LVM
		LVM = Logical Volume Manager.
		Flexible disk management tool in Linux systems
		Manages disk drives and storage devices

		Key Components:
		1. Physical Volumes (PV):
			A Physical Volume (PV) represents a physical storage device such as a hard drive, SSD, or partition that is incorporated into the LVM setup.
			PVs are created by assigning a whole disk or a partition to be used by LVM.
		2. Volume Groups (VG):
			Volume Groups (VG) are created by combining one or more PVs.
			VGs pool together the storage capacity from multiple physical volumes.
		3. Logical Volumes (LV):
			Logical Volumes (LV) are virtual partitions created within a Volume Group.
			LVs are similar to partitions but have the flexibility to be resized, moved, or modified without necessarily affecting the data within other logical volumes or the VG itself.
		4. Physical Extents (PE):
			Physical Extents (PE) are small chunks of disk space (usually 4MB in size) that make up the building blocks of both PVs and LVs.
			The size of a PE is configurable during the creation of a Volume Group.	

		Advantages of LVM:
		1. Flexibility:
			LVM allows for dynamic resizing of logical volumes without affecting data.
		2. Snapshots:
			Create point-in-time snapshots of volumes for backup or testing purposes.
		3. Striping and Mirroring:
			Enable data striping (to enhance performance) and mirroring (for redundancy).
		4. Ease of management:
			Simplifies disk management by abstracting physical disks into logical volumes.

		Summary:
			LVM provides an abstraction layer
			Makes managing storage easier and more flexible
			Useful in environments where storage requirements might change over time.
			Commonly used in servers and systems where dynamic allocation and resizing of storage are critical.

5: Sudo
	5.1: Check that sudo is properly installed
	5.2: Assign new user to sudo group
	5.3: Explain the value and operation of sudo
	5.4: Show the implementation of the rules
	5.5: Verify folder "/var/log/sudo". See command log
	5.6: Run command. See file again

6: UFW
	6.1: Check if UFW is installed and working
	6.2: Explain UFW and advantages
	6.3: List active rules
	6.4: Add and delete rule for port 8080

7: SSH
	7.1: Check if SSH is installed and working
	7.2: Explain SSH and advantages
	7.3: Check only port 4242
	7.4: Log in with new_user
	7.5: Try to log in as root

8: Script Monitoring
	8.1: Show the code
	8.2: Explain the code
	8.3: Explain the scheduling
	8.4: Make the script stop and restart
	8.5: Check script content and rights are unchanged

BONUS

